Steps for Healthy Swimming
Safety

Going for a swim in the summer has been a staple to the sunny days since the first person hopped into a body of water and found out how refreshing it can be. No matter if it’s a pool, lake, river, or ocean, there have been many memories made frolicking amongst friends in the water. But, because we all have to share the same water, we each need to do our part to keep our friends, family, and selves healthy. Here are a few ways you help protect yourself and your loved ones each time you enjoy the water.

Before getting into the water, you should do a little mini-inspection. If you’re going to a pool, check their latest inspection results either on a health department’s website or on-site to make sure everything is up to code. And if you’re going to a lake, figure out if there have been any closures on their website or via signs on-site. Taking a look at the water to see if it passes an eye-test can also be a good, quick way to figure out if the water is clean, as cloudy water could be a sign that there are more germs than usual. Using a pool test strip at your local pool is a way to get a more accurate read, as it will tell you the water’s free chlorine or bromine levels and the pH of the pool, so you can determine if those are in the safe zone.

You should also figure out the lifeguard situation of wherever it is you’re choosing to swim. If there is a lifeguard on duty, you should pay attention to make sure they are attentive and not just a bored teenager waiting for their shift to end so they can get out of there. If there isn’t a lifeguard, figure out where the necessary safety equipment is, because you don’t want to be in a panic, frantically searching for the life vest or rescue ring.

Especially relevant in times like now, but if you feel sick, make sure to stay out of the water. Your germs can be easily spread within the water and can cause others to catch whatever it is you are sick with. You should also avoid the water if you have an open wound. If you do have a wound, make sure it is securely covered using waterproof bandages. We’ve all, at one point or another, found a bandage in the water and know how much it can quickly turn around your fun time.

The last step before entering the pool should be a shower. Rinsing off in a shower before you go in, even for just one minute, removes most of the dirt and other toxins on your body that can spread in the pool. And if you skip the shower, the dirt that you bring into the pool will use up the chlorine that is meant to be killing off the other germs.

Once you get in, you should avoid going to the bathroom, both number 1 and 2. Both of these bodily functions can introduce a plethora of germs and other bacteria that can quickly contaminate a pool. For that reason, you should also avoid swallowing the water of the pool as much as possible to avoid unnecessarily introducing those germs into your body. If you aren’t the strongest swimmer, make sure to use a lifejacket or other flotation devices to ensure that you are safely relaxing in the pool instead of struggling.

These are just a few of the suggestions we have for keeping your swimming time as fun as possible. No one wants to wonder what they’re jumping into on a hot day, just how refreshed they’re going to feel once they get in, and following these tips will help put your mind at ease so all you have to figure out is whether to cannonball or jackknife.
