Why Indoor Pools Are Cool, Even In The Summer!
blog

As an indoor pool facility owner and operator, these summer months might be a little less busy for you. A lot of your usual swimmers are opting to go to the outdoor pool, the beach, or the waterpark. But there are tons of reasons why they should pass up the trip to the beach and come enjoy your indoor pool today. Below are just a few of the ways you can convince your swimmers that your indoor pool is the place to be!

This one is probably the most obvious, but there’s good reason for that! You can swim in an indoor pool no matter what the weather forecast brings you. We’ve all had plans to the beach or the waterpark derailed by rain, thunder, and lightning, which throws your whole day into disarray. You’ve got an unhappy group on your hands that you now have to figure out something that’s as fun as a day in the pool. But not at the indoor pool! Rain, sleet, snow, thunder, lightning- it doesn’t matter, an indoor pool will be open and ready to be enjoyed.

On top of plans getting derailed because of bad weather, sometimes it’s just not warm enough outside to hop in the water. You’ve been planning your trip for weeks, but the day is upon you and the weather’s not looking great. It’s a little chilly. The sun is shaded by the clouds. And no one wants to get in the pool. Everyone’s shivering, trying to muster up the courage to hop in. Your day full of fun has turned into a day full of cold and complaints. But that problem doesn’t happen at the indoor pool!

And sometimes, it’s sunny. I mean, really, really sunny. And with it being so sunny, you don’t want to leave the pool. You get lost in your time floating in the pool, maybe even dozing off for a second on an inflatable pool toy. And then you wake up and it hurts to move. You forgot to reapply the sunscreen and it’s showing. Your next few days are going to be spent with aloe vera, cold showers, and minimal movement. But you know where that problem doesn’t happen? You guessed it, the indoor pool!

Of course, that’s not to say that the sunshine is a bad thing. But we’re trying to get people in your indoor pool, and one of the biggest benefits is the predictability of the facility. Your swimmers will know what they’re going to get, from the weather to the temperature to the sunlight. And another very important part of the predictability is that there’s nothing that lurks in the deep of an indoor pool. Jaws started a phenomenon and probably kept people from the beach for weeks, and that sentiment is still in the back of a lot of people’s minds.

At the indoor pool, there are no sharks, no seaweed, no currents. Almost always, what you see is what you get. And that can inspire confidence in a swimmer who’s a little unsure of their abilities. You also have designated safe zones- the shallow end- where you can get acquainted in the pool before you venture out to the unknown. This isn’t always the case for a beach or waterpark, where you may be thrust into the thick of it without much say.

This is all to say, while there’s a time and place for every swimming option your guests may have, an indoor pool can always be enjoyed. There are so many reasons to choose indoor over the others, from the weather to the predictability of your trip. You’ll never be rained out, you won’t leave with a bad sunburn, and you almost definitely won’t be eaten by a shark. An indoor pool is always a good choice.
