Pool Safety Tips
Safety

baby proof pool safety systems
It’s that time of the year again. The sun is sizzling and the kids are splashing around in the pool. And while you’ve certainly heard of a few rules, like not to swim until 30 minutes after you’ve eaten, there are a few things you may not realize can make your pool much safer for both yourself and the kids. Here are some ideas on how to make your pool as safe as you can this summer.

The first is to build a fence around the pool, which can be one of the best safety measures you can take. It creates a barrier, showing kids that they should not be in that area without supervision. It can also help prevent the neighboring youth from coming into your pool while you aren’t home. And if you want to add another step of protection, you can also install an alarm to go with your fence.There are your standard alarms that alert you when the gate is opened, and the state-of-the-art versions that use motion sensors to spot wave activity, warning you any time there’s an unwanted guest in your pool.

Next on the list is making sure you have all the necessary rescue equipment, such as a life vest, shepherd’s hook, or tube in case anyone is in danger while swimming.This equipment should be close to the pool and easy to see and grab, because in an emergency you don’t want to be searching. A fully stocked first aid kit should also be near the pool, ready to use at a moment’s notice. And any adult who owns a pool should take a CPR class in the event that worse comes to worst. While the online version of the class will help, an in-person class will provide you with examples of the proper procedures that are needed to give CPR.

There are also a few inspections you can do to help maintain a safe swimming environment. The first is to make sure there are no slipping hazards around the pool area. Anyone can trip over a tube or a pool noodle, and if they aren’t expecting to go into the pool it can create a scary scenario. Keeping a tidy area around the pool will help avoid those potential scares. You should also periodically inspect the drain covers, as the suction pressure can create a pulling force to the bottom of the pool if they are loose. And lastly, keep the pool cleaning chemicals and any others stored in a safe, out-of-reach area.

The last few may seem obvious, but they are also very important. Setting pool rules is a great way to create an environment where kids know that there can be danger present if the rules aren’t followed. Some rules should include not running around the pool, no pushing people in, not diving into shallow water, don’t hold anyone under water, and not to swim without an adult present. And, of course, step one in keeping kids safe in the water is to teach them how to swim properly. If a child knows how to operate in the water, they will be significantly less likely to run into trouble while around the pool and can even help others should the time come.

We’ve all had amazing days, laying out around the pool with friends and family, the sun beating down as someone tells you it’s probably time to reapply some sunscreen. But, we also all know that those days could have turned much worse than a sun burn had safety precautions not been in place to make sure we were all having that fun time. Following these few tips and tricks can help ensure that you’re swimming again and again while also protecting your children.
