Breathe EZ This Winter with Truox
Safety, Saving Money

For a lot of pool owners, the winter means the off-season. A time to decompress, make a plan for when the weather gets warmer, and assess how the summer season went. But for all the indoor aquatic facility owners, this is your time to shine. The swimmers want to get in the pool, but it’s gotten too cold outside. You are the one that gives them that opportunity to splash around, to get their laps in. But with the guidelines on cleanliness ever-changing, you need to stay on top of your indoor pool maintenance now more than ever.

That’s where the Breathe EZ system from Truox comes in. This one of a kind machine can take the stress of maintaining your indoor pool’s air and water quality away so you can focus on cleaning other areas of your pool. In a study done by the CDC as well as Purdue and Michigan State University, the Breathe EZ virtually eliminated the disinfection byproduct concentration in an indoor pool on the same day it was implemented. These disinfection byproducts are a major cause in recreational water illnesses and irritation in the eyes, lungs, and more. And the last thing you want is to have one of your swimmers get sick after a trip to your facility.

Safe to say, getting rid of these disinfection byproducts is a huge, necessary step in making sure your indoor pool is ready for swimmers to hop in. But the Breathe EZ does so much more than just eliminate these pesky bacteria. Another major advantage to this patented system is its money saving benefits! The Breathe EZ system eliminates the need for breakpoint chlorination, because the Breathe EZ does that for you! By eliminating this process, you can reduce the chemical cost in your pool. You will also reduce the energy cost by reducing the outside air exchange. On top of this, your maintenance costs will plummet because your equipment will no longer be subjected to the wear and tear that poor air quality can have on it.

But, you think to yourself as you’re reading this, you’re not trying to install a brand new system. You don’t want to keep your pool out of business for a few days as a team of installers come to put the Breathe EZ in your pool. Just the thought of another huge machine coming through your doors sends shivers down your spine. Well, fear no more. The Breathe EZ can be implemented in just a few easy, non-expensive steps. By using the Breathe EZ Shock, Activator, and Oxidizer, all you’ll need to do is test the water a few times to make sure all your levels are correct and it’ll take care of the rest.

And even better, there’s a free trial offer on the Breathe EZ so you can see just how effective the system is for your indoor pool! That’s right, for the low cost of $0, you can see the results for yourself. The team at Truox is so confident that your expectations will be more than exceeded with the system, that you’ll see your costs plunge before your very eyes, that we are more than happy to give you some time to test it. A few days with Breathe EZ in your indoor pool and we know that you will never want to go back.
