Tips to Save Money at Your Indoor Pool Facility
Saving Money, Uncategorized

I don’t know of a single person who wouldn’t immediately say yes if they were offered the chance to save money. I think 100 out of 100 people would jump at the chance. And why wouldn’t they? Saving money in one aspect of your life gives you the opportunity to spend a little bit more in other aspects. Like in the indoor pool facility game, you save a few dollars here and there and all of a sudden you’ve got a new waterslide for your customers to race down or an upgraded diving board to really give the pop that the people have been craving. But if you’re not sure where to begin, look no further. The team at Truox came up with a guide to help you save money in your indoor pool facility!

It all starts with knowing how to do some simple preventative maintenance. You know those instruction manuals you get with every new piece of equipment? They’re usually chalk full of information on how to avoid breakdowns, malfunctions, and any other problems. And preventative maintenance can keep you from having to pay a fortune in repairs or new equipment and can also decrease downtime for repairs so you don’t have to shut down your pool to fix things.

The first step of preventative maintenance is usually to do a quick inventory of all of your equipment, noting which ones are more likely to need routine maintenance than others. Snapping pictures of the equipment and including those with product numbers and brand names will also give you quicker access to your inventory list, which should be set up nicely in a spreadsheet. And if you have a nice spreadsheet set up, you can include online product guides for all of your equipment so you can have a quick access should anything go wrong with your equipment.

After you’ve got a repeatable, easy to follow preventative maintenance plan in place, you can start looking at other areas that’ll have some opportunities to save money. One of the next places you should look is with your speed pump. A variable speed pump uses about 75% less energy than single speed pumps, which’ll save you a lot in electrical and energy costs. These pumps have more efficient motors and can help you optimize your pump speeds, allowing you to run it for longer and get better pool water circulation at a fraction of the cost. And with a lot of counties having a rule for how many times pool water has to turn over in a day, you can calibrate the variable pump so it turns the water over enough times to satisfy the county’s rule while also giving your facility the maximum amount of savings.

The variable speed pump is a quick fix to save money on energy costs, but sometimes the savings lie in a bigger issue- your indoor air quality. One of the biggest issues an indoor swimming pool faces is regulating the air, making sure it is at the right humidity, temperature, and isn’t full of contaminants. Poor indoor air quality can greatly increase the risk of illnesses and equipment corrosion and can cost you a fortune if it is not properly ventilated. And this risk is only increased if your pool water is not properly regulated.

That’s where the Breathetm EZ system from Truox comes in to play. It’s patented advanced oxidation technology virtually eliminates the contaminants that emit the low-quality air that sometimes envelops an indoor pool, giving it that overwhelming odor and causing a myriad of problems. It also eliminates the need for breakpoint chlorination and other chemical procedures, helping you save even more on chemical costs.

These are just a few of the ways to save you some dollars while making sure your swimmers are as happy and safe as can be. Make sure you’ve got a preventative maintenance plan in place, look into a variable speed pump, and make sure you are closely monitoring your indoor air quality, most easily with the Breathetm EZ system from Truox. And to help you save even more money and let you see the results for yourself, Truox is offering a free trial on the Breathetm EZ system! So save that money, get that waterslide, and sit back and relax knowing you’ve got the best pool in town!
